---
title: Bun protocol
prev_section: communication.html
next_section: dashboard.html
---

h1. The Bun Protocol

The Bun protocol ("Bullprotokollet" in Swedish) is a lightweight, decentralized request routing protocol. It is designed to be the simplest possible way to handle requests that are shared by a distributed group of people. We use it mostly to handle incoming client requests.

h2. The metaphor

When a bun (= issue or request) comes in it is warm, juicy and soft. If it sits around for a day it will get cold. If it sits around several days it will become dry and hard. You can warm up an old bun in the microwave oven as long as it hasn't become too dry.

So, a bun should be eaten fairly quickly or thrown away. No use stuffing it in a box. If you can't eat it yourself, offer it to someone else - before it gets cold, dry and hard!

h2. Sample buns

* You get an email "Hi, we want a website at company X. What will it cost and when can you be done?". Now you have a bun!
* You meet someone at conference who says "I want to join your company!". Now you have a bun!

h2. How the protocol works

A bun is born when someone asks you for something and you decide that "hey, this is a bun". Typically through email, but sometimes a phone call or a conference mingle.

*A bun always has an owner* - the person who received the bun. Or more specifically, the person responsible for the communication channel through which the bun appeared. For example, you are of course responsible for any emails sent directly to you, while the "office team":office-team.html is responsible for requests to info@webbsucce.se, etc.

*When you have a bun, you are responsible for taking care of it before it gets too dry!* Preferably within 1 working day, definitely within 2.

You have 3 options:

* *Eat it yourself.* For example "Sure, I can come and do a TDD course at your company". The bun is now consumed, i.e. it has found a home and will not be routed anywhere.
* *Give it to somebody else.* For example to a colleague who is more suitable than you, or another company. If you don't know exactly who should take it, email a broadcast to your colleagues or trusted partners: "Hi folks, does anybody want to take this bun?". Note that the bun is still yours until someone else takes it! Allow a day so that your colleagues have time to react, but if that takes more than a couple of days you need to keep the bun warm (for example tell the customer that you are searching for someone who can help). So you can't push the bun to someone, you can only offer it. The receiver has to pull the bun from you.
* *Throw it away.* For example someone emails me "Can you build a website based on Joomla?". I answer "No". Or I answer "No, we don't do Joomla, but I recommend you speak to Mr JoomlaGeek". That still counts as throwing away the bun, since I let it go and won't follow it up. Someone else might take it out of my garbage, but I don't need to know or care if that happens :o)

The one thing you should NOT do is just let the bun sit and dry. Better to explicitly throw it away in that case (i.e. tell the sender that we can't help).

So initially a buns appears through a "push" protocol, i.e. the initial recipient gets the bun whether he wants to or not. After that, however, everything is "pull"-based.

h2. Summary of the rules

* *As receiver of a bun you are responsible* until it is eaten by you, taken by someone else, or thrown away. If several people are interested, sync with them.
* *A bun should not get more than 1-2 days old* without being eaten by somebody, thrown away, or reheated (by talking to the customer/sender).
* *You can't push a bun onto someone else, they have to pull*. The bun is yours until someone else explicitly takes it (for example by saying "I'll take the bun"). You can of course recommend (or even try to convince) someone else to take it from you. This goes both ways - if someone offers you a bun, you don't have to respond if you aren't interested.
* When in doubt:
** Broadcast an email to everybody who might be interested or involved in this bun (write BULLE in the subject, as per our "email conventions":email-conventions.html). 
* *When broadcasting to find interested bun-takers, give your colleagues one day* to indicate interest in the bun. Don't just let the first one that answers have the bun. There might be more interested. Letting the first one that answers having the bun leads to race conditions and might cause tension between colleagues. 

We don't always succeed in following these rules, especially the 1-2 day age limit. But we really try our best, and we're at least aware of when we fail.

h2. Why it works

Here are some reasons:

* *Nice metaphor* - buns are good :o)
* *Simple*, anybody can learn it in 5 minutes.
* *Can be extended* as needed. New rules can be added, tool support can be added. But don't. Keep it simple and add stuff only if you really, really need it.
* *Doesn't require any specific artifacts* or documents that need to be maintained (unless you add that layer yourself...).
* *Decentralized* - uses "wisdom of the crowds" to ensure that buns reach the right destination in the shortest possible time with the least possible effort. People such as our business developer can focus on important stuff and not become a bottleneck for all kinds of trivial requests.
* It *scales*.
* *Customer focused* - customers normally get a response within a reasonable time.
* It *promotes trust and collaboration*, and avoids bottlenecks and command & control