---
title: Communication
prev_section: recruiting.html
next_section: bun-protocol.html
---

h1. Communication

Our *main internal communication channels* are:
* "Webbsuccé Unconference":unconference.html twice per year.
* Pulse meetings (or mini-conferences). These happen about twice per year, in between the unconferences. Typically a half day or whole day with some kind of theme, like "how we make decisions" or "how we handle conflict" or "how we run courses".
* Weekly meetings to maintain and develop Webbsuccé's projects and clients
* "Board meetings":board.html every month.
* "Slack":http://www.slack.com for chattier stuff
* Google Calendar for inviting random meetings

Most decisions are made, and most problems solved, in one of the above forums.

Where we *store info*:
* Google Drive - Our main doc is the "dashboard":dashboard.html
* GitHub - a github organization account for shared code and, well, the Webbsuccé DNA that you are reading right now.

How we *communicate with the outside world*:
* Our website - "www.webbsucce.se":http://www.webbsucce.se
* Monthly telephone calls or face-to-face meeting with customers to see if everthing is fine with the relation to Webbsuccé
* A mailing list for our customers
* "Linked In": https://www.linkedin.com/company/webbsuccé
* "Facebook":https://www.facebook.com/webbsucce
* ... but the biggest channel of communication is of course the personal and informal channels - Wembers talking to friends and customers. Together we have a huge network!
