---
title: Economic Model
prev_section: ownership-model.html
next_section: value-sharing.html
---

h1. Economic Model

The high level economic model is summarized in "How Webbsuccé Works":how-webbsucce-works.html. Here are some concrete examples to make it more clear.

h2. Example: One project 

Suppose Joe is a Wember, and his current project A. Suppose the current Webbsuccé fee is 10% + €400/month. 

# During Project A, Joe does his part of a project, valued shared to €2,000. "value sharing":value-sharing.html
# At the end of Project, Joe adds one row to the invoicing spreadsheet (a single shared Google doc for everyone at Webbsuccé), noting that Project A should be invoiced.
# The "office team":office-team.html sends a invoice from Webbsuccé to the client, for Joe's part in project A.
# Joe sends a €1,800 invoice from his personal company to Webbsuccé (€2,000 minus the 10% Webbsuccé "tax").

*Result for Project A:*
Client pays €2,000, Joe earns €1,800, Webbsuccé earns €200.

In addition, once per month Webbsuccé will send a €400 invoice to Joe's company for the monthly fixed fee.

h2. Example: adjusting the fees

At the end of the fiscal year, the "board":board.html notices that Webbsuccé is accumulating too much money (we want to maintain a limited liquidity buffer and not build up piles of cash), so they lower the fee to 9% + €350/month. Yay!

Check "how webbsuccé works":how-webbsucce-works.html if you are curious about why we don't want Webbsuccé to earn a big profit.

h2. What about taxes and VAT?

Taxes and VAT? Oh yes, that messes up the clean calculations above... :o)

We have experts hired to deal with that, and much of that is country-specific, so we won't bore you with details.

h2. What about risk pooling? What if someone gets in financial trouble?

What if a consultant can't find a client for an extended period? Or what if a client suddenly goes bankrupt and doesn't pay? What if a consultant gets seriously sick?

In a "normal" consulting company, consultants get their salary every month and the employer needs to prepare for risks using things like cash buffers and insurances. But Webbsuccé is more like a bunch of collaborating independents, and we leave it up to each individual to manage risk and insurance in their own company.

Nevertheless it may sound obvious that Webbsuccé should provide a "rainy day insurance" for each consultant, a shared cash buffer to support a consultant who runs into sudden cash flow problems. But that money needs to come from somewhere, and will in one way or another cause the Webbsuccé fee to increase.

Different people have different risk profiles. Some are very careful, keep their expenses low, and buffer lots of cash for rain day. Some are less careful, spend most of what they earn, and get involved in risky projects that may or may not pay off. Also, some people are good at managing their money, while others are sloppier.

As a result, our discussions always end up with people divided into two camps:
* *Yes*: "An insurance will increase my freedom and security, because Webbsuccé will help me if I run into temporary cash flow problems."
* *No*: "An insurance will decrease my freedom and security, because of the increased fees. I manage risk fine today by saving cash and minimizing unnecessary expenses."

This is where our "explicitly stated core values":what-is-webbsuccé.html come into use. Freedom is a core value, financial stability isn't. That doesn't mean financial stability isn't important, it just means that people came to Webbsuccé primarily for freedom, and that includes the freedom to choose your own risk-management approach.

This reasoning always leads us to the same conclusion:
* *Compromise*: "Some people want a shared insurance, some don't. Therefore we won't force it upon everyone. Instead, those individuals who want an insurance (and are willing to pay for it) can get together and form one together. That way, insurance is opt-in."

So anyone who wants to do risk-pooling is free to propose a model and see if anyone wants to join, but insurance isn't owned or managed by Webbsuccé.




