---
title: Happiness Index
prev_section: why-this-works.html
next_section: ownership-model.html
---

h1. Happiness Index

Our primary metric is “Nöjd Wember Index” (in english: “Happy Wember Index” or “Webbsuccé Happiness Index”). It's the only thing we systemically measure and follow up. Scale is 1-5. The data lives in our "dashboard":dashboard.html (a shared Google spreadsheet).

All in all this gives us a great overview of what's working and what needs to be fixed.


h2. Survey questions

The 3 main questions in the survey are:

* *How happy are you with being at *? This is the main overarching happiness index.
* *How happy are you with your tasks in Webbsuccé*? This means internal work such as board meetings, conference facilitation, or creating this Webbsuccé DNA site.
* *How happy are you with your current client?

The scale is:
* 5 = Super-happy! Don't want to change anything!
* 4 = Pretty happy, but there are some things that need to be fixed.
* 3 = I can live with this, but there are many things that need to be fixed.
* 2 = Not feeling so good about this right now.
* 1 = This is crap! I want out.


We have a few additional text columns as well, to gather further info. They are all optional.

* What feels best right now?
* What feels worst right now?
* What would increase your happiness level?
* How will I contribute to raising the overall happiness level?
* Other comments.


h2. How we use the happiness data

The happiness index is used as key artifact during "board meetings":board.html, and we also print it out and bring to our "bi-annual unconference":unconference.html.

Whenever the average changes significantly, we talk about why, and what we can do to make everybody happier. If we see a 1 or 2 on any row, that acts as an effective call for help. People go out of their way to find out how they can help that person, which often results in some kind of process improvement in the company.

Webbsuccé Happiness Index is more important than any financial metric, not only because it visualizes the aspect that matters most to us, but also because it is a leading indicator, which makes us more agile. Most financial metrics are trailing indicators, making it hard to react to change in time.
