---
title: Webbsuccé DNA
next_section: what-is-Webbsuccé.html
---
h1. What is this?

This site is an "open-source":http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Open_source site describing how Webbsuccé works and why. 

"Webbsuccé":https://www.webbsucce.se is a web agency company based in Helsingborg, Sweden. But we aren't a very typical web agency company. For example:

* None of the consultants are actually employed by {{ site.company_name }}.
* We have no managers, not even a CEO. Instead we rely on self-organization and transparency. Almost everything is bottom-up, and "anyone can drive any decision":decisions.html.
* Webbsuccé's main purpose is to enable consultants to be happy, and "Webbsuccé Happiness Index":happiness-index.html is our driving metric. Strong revenue and delighted customers are a side effect, not a goal.
* Webbsuccé doesn't want to earn money from it's consultants. It is in practice a non-profit company (although not formally so). Consultants "keep most of what they earn":economic-model.html.
* Our "ownership model":ownership-model.html is designed to keep our stock financially worthless. There is no incentive to "cash in".
* Consultants are 100% autonomous. They can do whatever they want (as long as they don't hurt the brand or "our house":what-is-Webbsuccé.html), and work as much or as little as they want.

We have been inspired of "Crisp":https://www.crisp.se and the model of driving their company like a Teal Organization. We are so thankful that they shared the model in DNA - Open Source based. We have forked it and keep som really good things, and tweaked the other to fit our company and model "open source":http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Open_source it.

Want to start a similar org? See "How to clone the Crisp / Webbsuccé DNA":how-to-copy.html.

h1. Contents

h2. Driving principles

(these principles drive almost everything at Webbsuccé)

* "What is Webbsuccé":what-is-webbsucce.html - the purpose of the company
* "How Webbsuccé works":how-webbsucce-works.html - summary of our model, and some driving principles.
* "Why this works":why-this-works.html - why this model has served us so well

h2. Core structure and practices

(although these are core to our model, they are mostly just consequences of the principles above)

* "Happiness index":happiness-index.html - how do we know if we are succeeding?
* "Ownership model":ownership-model.html - how do people become owners, and what ownership actually means?
* "Economic model":economic-model.html - how does money flow through the system?
* "Value sharing":value-sharing.html - how we share the money
* "How we make decisions":decisions.html - how do decisions get made when there is no manager?
* "Recruiting":recruiting.html - how do new people get in?
* "Communication":communication.html - how do we collaborate, sync, and improve?
* "Bun protocol":bun-protocol.html - how do we handle customer enquiries and route to the right consultant?
* "Cook-the-fudge Protocol":fudge-protocol.html - sometimes you just need to get it done - thats how we act!
* "Dashboard":dashboard.html - how do we see the big picture?
* "Office team":office-team.html - how do we handle admin and day-to-day operations?
* "Board of directors":board.html - Swedish law requires that we have a BoD. So how does the BoD at Webbsuccé work?
* "Our business":our-business.html - what type of work we do
* "Customer support protocol and quality model":support-quality.html - our business most important stuff
* "Sales":sales.html - how do we actually sell consultants?
* "Webbsuccé unconference":unconference.html - how our bi-annual unconference works

h2. Supporting practices

(relevant stuff, but not core to our model)

* "Industries that we avoid":industries-that-we-avoid.html - why we avoid certain industries
* "Conflict handling":conflict-handling.html - How do we make sure conflicts are constructive rather than destructive?
* "Contracts":contracts.html - our internal contracts for Webbsuccé membership, ownership, etc.
* "Brand building":brand-building.html - how do we build the brand, both Webbsuccé and personal brands?

h2. Meta

* "How to clone the Webbsuccé / Crisp (founder of this) DNA":how-to-copy.html




