---
title: Ownership model
prev_section: happiness-index.html
next_section: economic-model.html
---


h1. Ownership model

Webbsuccé is a Swedish "aktiebolag":http://sv.wikipedia.org/wiki/Aktiebolag (comparable to an English limited company). This means there are shares, and someone has to own them.

So who owns Webbsuccé, how are new owners brought in, and what does ownership mean?

Our model is simple: *anyone who has been at Webbsuccé for 1+ years can become an owner.*

bq. Why 1 year? Glad you asked! Although we are notoriously "picky with recruiting":recruiting.html, we *might* screw up and bring in a bad apple. We'll probably notice and get rid of a bad apple faster than 1 year! The 1 year rule reduces the risk that the bad apple is also a shareholder, which would complicate the getting-rid-of process. 

Now you might thinking "Huh, so _anyone_ is allowed to become a partner? Really?".

Exactly! The idea is that, if we wouldn't trust someone to co-own the company, why would we trust them to represent Webbsuccé at all? So if, after one year, we don't trust a Wember enough to offer them ownership, that's a sign they shouldn't be at Webbsuccé at all.

h2. What does ownership cost?

We strive to minimize the financial value of the company. Yes, you heard it right. I know, that's like the opposite of what other companies do. But remember, the purpose of Webbsuccé is not to enrich it's owners. The purpose is to "help consultants be happy":what-is-webbsuccé.html. 

bq. We've all seen consulting companies that work like pyramid schemes - where old-timers are like fat cats parasiting from the hard work of newcomers. That's exactly what we *don't* want to be.</rant>

So our shares are pretty fixed at the lowest possible price that complies with Swedish law. 

When you become an owner (which is entirely optional), you buy stock at that low price. You will have the exact same amount of stock as the other owners. And if/when you leave Webbsuccé, you must sell your stock back at basically the same price. For details, see "contracts":contracts.html.

This means there is no financial incentive to own stocks, no cashing out.

h2. What does ownership actually mean?

Ownership means very little in practical terms. You won't get rich, and you won't gain more influence (power is gained through meritocracy, not ownership - see our "decision process":decisions.html). In theory there are situations where ownership CAN make a difference, like if our normal decision process completely breaks down and we have to resort to shareholder voting for a critical decision. But that almost never happens.

So what's the point of being a shareholder? Well, it's mostly symbolic - the warm fuzzy feeling of co-owning this fine company. Some of us like that, while others see ownership as just extra paperwork with no personal benefit.

h2. What if someone buys Webbsuccé?

In theory someone could come along and shell out a bunch of cash to buy Webbsuccé, and in that case the owners would in a sense cash out. But with the current structure we see that as extremely unlikely. Webbsuccé itself is just a container, a platform. The real value is the consultants, and they aren't even employed by Webbsuccé. So although someone can technically buy Webbsuccé, they can't really buy the people inside Webbsuccé. And besides, who would buy a company that explicitly strives to minimize it's financial value :o)

But who knows. The world can be strange sometimes.
