---
title: Unconference
prev_section: sales.html
next_section: industries-that-we-avoid.html
---

h1. Webbsuccé Unconference

Twice per year we do an internal unconference, in Sweden or abroad.

An unconference is like a normal conference but with no predefined agenda, no predefined list of speakers, no slides, and… er… actually it’s not very much like a normal conference at all! It’s more like an alternative to a conference. If the purpose of a conference is to collaborate and communicate, then an unconference will often fulfill the same purpose in a more simple, fun, and effective way!

h2. Why we do conferences

Face-to-face is the most effective way to get to know each other, spread knowledge, solve problems, and make decisions.

h2. Where do we go?

Varies. We normally alternate between a small local trips (2 days at a venue near Skåne), followed by a bigger international trip (4 days in some interesting European country.

h2. Does everyone have to attend?

More or less, yes. We haven't made it a formal rule, but implicitly people are expected to attend "most" conferences (sometimes Life gets in the way of course). This is our most important team activity, and all high-impact decisions happen there. We also get to know each other better, build trust, trade knowledge, and have lots of fun! 

Basically, the conference is where the Webbsuccé DNA strengthens and evolves!

The conference cost (travel, hotel, etc) is split evenly between all consultants, whether or not you attend. That way there's not much economic incentive to skip the conference (as in "I'm a bit low on cash now, so I'm skipping the conference"). You pay either way so you might as well attend :)